---
layout:       post
title:        "IELTS - After Class Note, Week 2"
author:       "Allan"
header-style: text
catalog:      true
mathjax:      true
comments: true
tags:
    - IELTS
    - English
    - Reading
    - Usage
---

# Out of Note Content 
## The usage of pp in the sentence
pp is the abbreviation of past participle. It is used to describe the past tense of the verb. For example, the past tense of the verb "eat" is "ate", and the past participle of the verb "eat" is "eaten".

e.g. 
1. The man killed the girl **(with a knife)**. 
2. The girl **(killed by the man)** was 8.  

The **killed** is served as verb (past tense) in the sentence 1 and pp in sentence 2 respectively. 


# Usage, Collocation and Mistake
All the usage and mistake are based on the notes of the lesson 1.
## Usage
### Usage of "Since"
#### Since vs For
- Since is used to describe the time when the action started.
  - e.g. I have been in Hong Kong since 2010.
- For is used to describe the duration of the action.
  - e.g. I have been in Hong Kong for 10 years.

#### Present perfect continuous + Since
- Present perfect continuous is used to describe the action that started in the past and is still happening now. (以前己經有做，現在仍然在做，並且可能會繼續做下去)
  - e.g. I have been living in Hong Kong since 2010.
  - e.g. Prices have been increasing **since the war broke out** (Since + S V.ed).

#### Present perfect + Since
- Present perfect is used to describe the action that started in the past and is still happening now. (以前己經有做，現在仍然在做，但不一定會繼續做下去)
  - e.g. I have lived in Hong Kong since 2010.
  - e.g. Prices have increased **by 2070 since last year**.
  
### Usage of 'had better'
- had better is a **model verb** (e.g. should)
- **have** better (X)
- had better + V.原形
- e.g. You had better **go** to bed early tonight.

### Usage of 'deprive'
- sth. deprive sb. (of sth.)
- e.g. The war **(sth.)** has deprived many children **(sb.)** of their parents **(sth.)**.
- e.g. They are deprived (of their freedom) (by the government).

### Usage of 'concern'
#### Concern (v.)
- sth. concern sb. (sth. 令我擔心 sb.)
- e.g. The news **(sth.)** concerns me **(sb.)**.

#### Concern (n.)
- sth. is a concern (sth. 令我擔心)
- e.g. The news **(sth.)** is a concern **(sth.)**.

#### Concerned (adj.)
- sb. is concerned with sth. (sb. 關心 sth.)
  - e.g. I am concerned with the news **(sth.)**.

- sb. is concerned about sth. (sb. 擔心 sth.)
  - e.g. I am concerned about your health **(sth.)**.

#### Concerning (prep.)
- concerning = about

e.g 
- The letter was **concerning** the new policy.
- The letter was **about** the new policy.

### Usage of 'oppose/object to/ be opposed to'
- sb. **oppose** sth. / doing sth. (sb. 反對 sth. / doing sth.)
- sb. **object to** sth./ doing sth.
- sb. **be opposed to** sth./ doing sth.
  - opposed is an **adjective**

- If we can put a noun here, we can also put a gerund here.
e.g.
- Many environmentalists **be opposed to** the replacement of the harbour with land **(sth.)**.
- Many environmentalists **oppose** replacing the harbour with land **(doing + sth.)**.
  
## Collocation
### Collocation of "V. new friends"
- **make** new friends (O)
- **meet** new friends/ people (O)
- **know** new friends (X)

### Number vs Amount
- Number is used for **countable** nouns.
  - The number (of tourists) is 10.
    - be careful the **is/are**
- Amount is used for **uncountable** nouns.
  - The amount (of water in the bottle) is 10ml. 
    - be careful the **is/are**

### Collocation of "effort"
- **pay** more effort (X)
- put more effect into/on sth. (O)
- make an/every effort to do sth. (O)

e.g. 
- You had better put more effort into/on your work.

### Last/next/every + (Time) year/week/Monday
- served as adverb
- should **NOT** add "the" or "prep" before the time

e.g. 
- since the last summer (X)
- since last summer (O)
- in every Monday (X)
- every Monday (O)

## Mistake 
### Past perfect tense
Past perfect tense is used to describe the action that happened before another action in the past. （用於講述比過去更過去的事情）

**好少會獨立使用 past perfect**

e.g. 
1. Before the police arrived, he **(had)** escaped. 
  - He escaped (earlier event)
  - Before the police arrived (later event)
  - Either simple past or past perfect can be used with no difference in meaning
2. When the police arrived, he escaped. 
  - Using "when" signifies simultaneity or events happening at roughly the same time.

### Mistake of "news"
- news is **uncountable** noun
- a news (X)
- a good news (X)
- a piece of news (O)
- news (O)


e.g. 
- This is definitely a piece of good news to all of us.
- This is definitely good news to all of us.

# Incorrect Answer Note for Reading Practice 2
## MC
### Question 2 
- There was some opposition to the design of the Falkirk Wheel at first. 
- The correct answer is **NG**
  - The answer of Question 3 is explicitly located in the paragraph 4. 
  - The answer of Question 1 is explicitly located in the paragraph 1.
  - Both hints indicate that the answer is NG.
  - $\therefore$ we should always read two questions first as a buffer. 

### Question 4
- The Falkirk Wheel is the only boat lift in the world which has steel sections bolted together by hand. 
- The correct answer is **NG**
  - The answer of Question 3 is explicitly located in the paragraph 4, 
    - meaning that the scope of the answer is limited to paragraph 4 or below.
  - In paragraph 1, it is mentioned "The Falkirk Wheel in Scotland is the world's first and **only** rotating boat lift."
    - It is out of scope of the answer.
    -  **rotating** is not specified in the question 4.
    -  We should not be trapped by paragraph 1.

## Filling the blank 
### Question 10
- A range of different-sized _____ ensures boat keeps upright
  - be careful the SVO
  - A range (of different-sized _____) is the subject and ensures is the verb which follows A range **(singular)**.
  - of different-sized _____ is an extra information 
    - $\therefore$ the blank should be a plural noun.
    - different-sized **cog** (X)
    - different-sized **cogs** (O)

### Question 12-13
The answer of question 13 appear earlier than question 12, meaning that the order of the answer obeys the order of the paragraph **only**.
- Q12. Boat travels through tunnel beneath Roman **wall**. 
- Q13. A pair of **locks** are lifted in order to shut out water from canal basin.

The last paragraph:

The remaining 11 metres of lift needed to reach the Union Canal is achieved by means of a pair of **locks**. The Wheel could not be constrcuted to elevate boats over the full 35-metre difference between the two canals, owing to the presence of the historically important Antonine **Wall**, which was built by the Romans in the second century AD. Boats travel under this **wall** via a tunnel, then through the **locks**, and finally on to the Union Canal.

