---
layout:       post
title:        "IELTS - After Class Note, Week 1"
author:       "Allan"
header-style: text
catalog:      true
mathjax:      true
comments: true
tags:
    - IELTS
    - English
    - Reading
    - Usage
---
# Introduction of IELTS
## What is IELTS
The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is designed to help you work, study or migrate to a country where English is the native language.

## Grade comparison between DSE and IELTS
| DSE | IELTS |
| --- | --- |
| 5* | 7 |
|5 | 6.5|
|5.5 | 3|

## IELTS Test Format
4 sections, including 
- Listening
- Writing
- Speaking
- Reading

### Listening 
- 30 minutes
- 4 recordings 
- 40 questions
- 10 minutes to transfer answers to answer sheet
- Type: MC, Matching, labelling, summary completion, Sentence completion, Short-answer questions

Grade is based on the number of correct answers.
| Grade | Score |
| --- | --- |
| 9 | 39-40 |
| 8.5 | 37-38 |
| 8 | 35-36 |
| 7.5 | 33-34 |
| 7 | 30-32 |

### Writing 
- 60 minutes
- 2 tasks
- task 1: describe facts or figures presented in one or more graphs
- task 2: Argumentative essay

Reviewer rate at Grade 7.
adjust to Grade 6 if the writing has noticeable errors.
adjust to Grade 8 if the writing is something they want(didnt explain).

### Speaking
- 11-14 minutes
- 3 parts
- start at Grade 6
- adjust to higher if talkative and fluent
- adjust to lower if not fluent, not talkative, not conversational

### Reading
- 60 minutes
- 3 sections (each section contains 13-14 MC questions)
- 40 questions 
- Type: MC (T, F, NG)
  - **比較類**需要注意
  - e.g. 原文：多 -> MC: 愈來愈多 -> NG
  - 以一般人認為既推論為答案
  - e.g. 著裙 -> 去女廁 -> T
  - e.g. 紋身 -> 黑社會 -> NG
- Type: filling the blanks 
  - 1-2 words
  - fill Noun, Verb, or Adj. 
  - think about **singular or plural** form for Noun
- All questions sub-sections in a section share the linear order, i.e. the answer of question 2 is after the answer of question 1. 
  - We should:
    - Read the question first to find keywords (buffers) in all sub-sections.
    - Read the passage in paragraph order to find the answers
    - If answer is not certain, read the next questions for buffers and start to read the next paragraph. 
    - (For MC) If the answer of Q2 is located, it suggests Q1 may be NG.
    - (For MC) If the answer between NG and T/F is uncertain, try to rephrase the keywords to content of passage, see if logical or not. (Details in reading practice 1)
    - (For filling the blank) If the answer is uncertain, try to rephrase the keywords to content of passage, see if logical or not. (Details in reading practice 1)

# The idea of completed sentence
- All sentences must be complete. i.e. [Subject + Verb + Object]
- 4 type of info in a sentence
  - Verb
  - Subject
  - 先選 verb, 後睇 subject 去決定 verb choice
    - e.g There **is** a lot of **information** on the internet.
  - usage + collacation
  - Extra information
    - prep phrase / participle phrase 
      - e.g. The girl **with long hair** killed the man **with a knife**.
      - e.g. The wallet **made of leather** was stolen.
    - adj. Clauses / adv. Clauses
      - e.g. The students **who did not work hard** failed the test **held yesterday**.
- $\therefore$ **Subject + Verb + Object** is the basic structure of a sentence.
- e.g. **Because SVO**, SVO. [Where Because SVO is a adj. Clause] 

# Usage and Mistake
## Usage of "suggest"
- suggest + ing
  - e.g. I suggest **going** to the cinema.
- suggest + that + S + (should) V O
  - e.g. I suggest **that you go** to the cinema.
  - e.g. I suggest (that) she (should) **do** her homework.

## Usage of "the + adj."
- 果班 XX 人
- the poor
- the old
- the underprivileged
- the rich
- the elderly 
  - not the elderlies 

## Usage of "spend"
- spend sth. on sth.
  - e.g. I spend 2 hours on my homework.
- spend sth. doing. sth.
  - e.g. I spend 2 hours doing my homework.

## Usage of "inform"
- inform sb. of sth.
  - e.g. I inform you of the meeting.
  - e.g. You will be informed of the meeting.

## Usage of "provide"
- provide sb. with sth.
  - e.g. The government provides the poor with food.
- provide sth. to sb.
  - e.g. The government provides food to the poor.

## Usage of "let"
- let sb. **to** do sth. is wrong
- let sb. do sth. is correct
- consider "The department do not let the staff**s** to use their company email accounts for personal affairs."
- Suggested writing:
  - The department do not let the staff use their company email accounts for personal affairs.   

## Usage of "see/hear/feel"
- see/hear/feel + O + Ving
  - e.g. I saw him running. (I saw him when he was running.)
  - e.g. I heard him singing. 
  - e.g. I felt the wind blowing.
- see/hear/feel + O + BF
  - e.g. I saw him walk hand in hand when they were hit by the car from the back. (I saw the whole process from walking hand in hand to hitting by the car.)
- see/hear/feel + pp
  - e.g. I saw the door closed. (I saw the door when it was closed.)
## Mistake of "staffs"
- staff is a collective noun, so we cannot write staffs
- staff is/are both correct

## Mistake of "learn knowledge"
- learn knowledge is wrong (heavily inflcenced by Chinese)
- attain/acquire/ gain knowledge is correct

## Mistake of matching Subject and Verb 
- consider "Joining internship programs can widen students exposure."
  - not "Joining X" widen exposure,
  - Students widen exposure by joining X.
- suggested writing:
  - sth. enable sb. to
    - Joining internship programs enable students to widen their exposure.
  - Students can widen their exposure by joining internship programs.

# Incorrect Answer Note for Reading Practice 1 
## MC 
- 9. Human being are responsible for some of the destruction to food=producing land.
  - From paragraph 3: If successfully implemented, proponents claim, vertical famrs offer the promise of urban renewal, sustainable production of a safe and varied food supply (through year-round production of all crops), and the eventual repair of ecosystems **that have been sacrificed for horizontal farming**.
  - From paragraph 4: Along the way, we **despoiled** most of the land we worked, often turning verdant, productive landscapes into semi-arid deserts.
  - $\therefore$, T is the answer.

- Some damage to food crops is caused by climate change. 
  - From paragraph 4: However, more often than not now, due to a rapidly **changing climate**, that is not what happens. Massive floods, long droughts, hurricanes and servere monsoon take their toll each year, destroying millions of tons of valuable crops. 
    - That refers to "hope for a good weather year (for crops planting)".