---
layout:       post
title:        "IELTS - After Class Note, Week 3"
author:       "Allan"
header-style: text
catalog:      true
mathjax:      true
comments: true
tags:
    - IELTS
    - English
    - Reading
    - Usage
---

# Usage 
## Lack
- I **lack** money.
- I am **in lack of**(adj.) money.
- I am **lacking in** (adj.) money.
- I have **a lack of** (n.) money.

## Wish
- I wish (that) S V O
  - in subjective mood (假設性語氣)
    - will -> would 
    - present -> past
    - past -> past perfect (unrealistic wish)
  - e.g I wish you would/could come tommorrow. （預左你吾黎 黎就好lu）
  - e.g I wish you were here.
  - (X) We wish **Hong Kong will have a good future.**
  - (X) We wish **Hong Kong would have a good future.**
  - (O) We wish Hong Kong a good future. (We wish sb. sth.)
  - (O) We hope Hong Kong will have a good future. (We hope that S V O)

## Emphasize
- (X) emphasize **on** sth.
- (O) emphasize sth.
- (O) put emphasis on sth.
- e.g. The offical emphasized the importance of the new policy.
- e.g. The offical put emphasis on the importance of the new policy.

## Present Perfect vs. Simple Past Tense
- Present Perfect 
  - within the present time frame
  - with effects up to now
  - 屬於 present 家族成員，同"現在"一定有關 
  - 如果冇明顯時間，也暗示對現在有影響
  - e.g. I have been to Japan. (I have the experience of going to Japan.)
- 雖然如此，美國人全部用 simple past 表達也冇問題 
- (X) He has graduated from university for three years. （冇影響到現在, 除非正常表達畢業既影響有三年？？？）
- (O) He graduated from university three years ago. （冇影響到現在）
# Collocation
## Parallel Structure 
- e.g. **and/or/but**
- Consider: research show that many students' English level is far from satisfactory and do not have a good foundation of grammar.
  1. many students' English level is far from satisfactory
  2. ??? many students' English level do not have a good foundation of grammar. 
     - The subject "many students' English level" is not correct usage here. 
      - The subject should be "students/they".
- **research** is an uncountable noun. 
- **far from + adj.** is a fixed phrase.
- Correct sentence: "Research **shows** that many students' English level is far from satisfactory and **they** do not have a good foundation of grammar."

## Conn. ($S_x$) V O, $S_x$ V O
-  When doing (ing for Av/ pp. for Pv) sth., $S_x$ V O
   - = When $S_x$ do/does sth., $S_x$ V O
- Consider: When crossing the road, the bus knocked him down. 
  - = When the bus cross the road, the bus knocked him down??? （巴士係行駛於馬路，吾會橫過馬路
  - (O) When crossing the road, he was knocked down by the bus.
  - (O) When he was crossing the road, the bus knocked him down.
  
## Mismatching of SVO
- Consider: Smoking in the indoor areas will be fined
  - 中文睇落好正常咁
  - 但係英文嚟講，SVO唔match
  - smoking is a behaviour, which cannot be fined. 
  - (O) People who smoke in the indoor areas will be fined.
  - (O) People smoking in the indoor areas will be fined.

## resource 
- Resource (CN) -> Resources 
  - (O) The government should allocate more resources to the education sector.

# Reading Practice 3
This type of reading share a triangular type writing style.
  - Topic/ general idea
    - Core / Explanation 
      - Example / Evidence
  - 只要識得明哩個三角陣任何一部分，就可以明大部分既內容

## Questions 1-3
- Matching headings vs. paragraphs
- 配返題目到段落 
- 非順序題型，需要先將題目 keyword 記低，每睇完一段去對照題目 keyword，再決定係咪答案
- 應有保留答案，最後再決定答案
e.g. 
- 1.Mention of a geo-engineering project based on an earlier natural phenomenon. 
- 2.an example of a successful use of geo-engineering
- 3.a common definition of geo-engineering

|Paragraph|Massage|Questions?|
|-|-|-|
|1|Consequently, an increasing number of scientists are beginning to explore the alternative of geo-engineering - a term which generally refers to the intentional large-scale manipulation of the environment|1|
2|Geo-engineering has been shown to work, **at least on a small localized scale**. For decades, MayDay parades in Moscow have taken place under clear blus skies, aircaft having deposited dry ice, silver iodide and cement powder to disperse clouds. | 2|
3| The majority of geo-engineering projects so far carried out - which include planting forests in deserts and depositing iron in the ocean to stimulate the growth of algae - have fouces on achieving a general cooling of the Earth | 2? （只有hope to achieve, 非成功）|
4|The concept of releasing aerosol sprays into the stratosphere above the Arctic has been proposed by serveral scientists. This would involve using sulphur or hydrogen sulphide aerosols so that sulphur dioxide would form clouds, which would, in turn, lear to a global dimming. This idea is modelled on histroic volcanic explosions, such as that of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines in 1991, which led to a short-term cooling of global temperatures by 0.5 degrees Celsius. | 1|

## Questions 11-14
- Matching people vs. statements
- 優先專注於人名，再睇佢既 statements
- 每當有人名出現，嘗試將statement 與人名連結
- 有可能要一定程度既推論，要有觀察名單，最後再決定答案

e.g.
- 11.The effects of geo-engineering may not be so long-lasting.
- 12.Geo-engineering is a topic worth exploring.
- 13.It may be necessary to limit the effectiveness of geo-engineering.
- 14.Research into non-fossil-based fuels cannot be replaced by geo-engineering.

|Name|Round 1|Round 2|Round 3|Round 4|Round 5|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
Roger Angel | his plan is 'no subsitutes for developing renewable energy: the only permanent solution' (14, 11) | (14, $\cancel{11}$)
Phil Rasch | | I think all of us agree that if we were to end geo-engineering on a given day, then the planet would return to its pre-engineered condition very rapidly, and probably within ten to twenty years. (11) | Geo-engineering plans to inject stratospheric aerosols or to seed coluds would act to cool the plant, and act to increase the extent of sea ice. But all the models suggest some impact on the distribution of precipitation. (11, 13) | (11, $\cancel{13}$)
Dan Lunt ||||A further risk with geo-engineering projects is that your can 'overshoot'. You may bring global temperatures back to pre-industrial levels, but the risk is that the poles will still be warmer than they should be and the tropics will be cooler than before insdustrialisation. Angel's project would have to operate at half strength. (13)|
Martin Sommerkorn |||||Human-induced climate change has brought humanity to a position where we shouldn't exclude thinking thoroughly about this topic and its possibilities. (12)|